1. JAMA Pediatr. 2020 Oct 1;174(10):e202422. doi: 10.1001/jamapediatrics.2020.2422. 
Epub 2020 Oct 5.

Simulated Assessment of Pharmacokinetically Guided Dosing for Investigational 
Treatments of Pediatric Patients With Coronavirus Disease 2019.

Maharaj AR(1), Wu H(1), Hornik CP(1)(2), Balevic SJ(1)(2), Hornik CD(1)(2)(3), 
Smith PB(1)(2), Gonzalez D(4), Zimmerman KO(1)(2), Benjamin DK Jr(1)(2), 
Cohen-Wolkowiez M(1)(2); Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act–Pediatric Trials 
Network Steering Committee.

Author information:
(1)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Durham, North Carolina.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, North 
Carolina.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North 
Carolina.
(4)University of North Carolina Eshelman School of Pharmacy, Division of 
Pharmacotherapy and Experimental Therapeutics, University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill.

Comment in
    JAMA Pediatr. 2020 Oct 1;174(10):e202435.
    JAMA Pediatr. 2021 Apr 1;175(4):432-433.

IMPORTANCE: Children of all ages appear susceptible to severe acute respiratory 
syndrome coronavirus 2 infection. To support pediatric clinical studies for 
investigational treatments of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), 
pediatric-specific dosing is required.
OBJECTIVE: To define pediatric-specific dosing regimens for hydroxychloroquine 
and remdesivir for COVID-19 treatment.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Pharmacokinetic modeling and simulation were 
used to extrapolate investigated adult dosages toward children (March 2020-April 
2020). Physiologically based pharmacokinetic modeling was used to inform 
pediatric dosing for hydroxychloroquine. For remdesivir, pediatric dosages were 
derived using allometric-scaling with age-dependent exponents. Dosing 
simulations were conducted using simulated pediatric and adult participants 
based on the demographics of a white US population.
INTERVENTIONS: Simulated drug exposures following a 5-day course of 
hydroxychloroquine (400 mg every 12 hours × 2 doses followed by 200 mg every 12 
hours × 8 doses) and a single 200-mg intravenous dose of remdesivir were 
computed for simulated adult participants. A simulation-based dose-ranging study 
was conducted in simulated children exploring different absolute and 
weight-normalized dosing strategies.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary outcome for hydroxychloroquine was 
average unbound plasma concentrations for 5 treatment days. Additionally, 
unbound interstitial lung concentrations were simulated. For remdesivir, the 
primary outcome was plasma exposure (area under the curve, 0 to infinity) 
following single-dose administration.
RESULTS: For hydroxychloroquine, the physiologically based pharmacokinetic model 
analysis included 500 and 600 simulated white adult and pediatric participants, 
respectively, and supported weight-normalized dosing for children weighing less 
than 50 kg. Geometric mean-simulated average unbound plasma concentration values 
among children within different developmental age groups (32-35 ng/mL) were 
congruent to adults (32 ng/mL). Simulated unbound hydroxychloroquine 
concentrations in lung interstitial fluid mirrored those in unbound plasma and 
were notably lower than in vitro concentrations needed to mediate antiviral 
activity. For remdesivir, the analysis included 1000 and 6000 simulated adult 
and pediatric participants, respectively. The proposed pediatric dosing strategy 
supported weight-normalized dosing for participants weighing less than 60 kg. 
Geometric mean-simulated plasma area under the time curve 0 to infinity values 
among children within different developmental age-groups (4315-5027 ng × h/mL) 
were similar to adults (4398 ng × h/mL).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: This analysis provides pediatric-specific dosing 
suggestions for hydroxychloroquine and remdesivir and raises concerns regarding 
hydroxychloroquine use for COVID-19 treatment because concentrations were less 
than those needed to mediate an antiviral effect.

DOI: 10.1001/jamapediatrics.2020.2422
PMCID: PMC7275264
PMID: 32501511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr C. P. 
Hornik reported personal fees from Anavex Pharmaceuticals and grants from Pfizer 
outside the submitted work. Dr Balevic reported grants, nonfinancial support, 
and other support from the US Food and Drug Administration, grants from the 
National Institutes of Health, Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute, 
Rheumatology Research Foundation, Thrasher Research Fund, and Childhood 
Arthritis and Research Alliance/Arthritis Foundation; and personal fees from UCB 
outside the submitted work. Dr Gonzalez reported a travel grant through the 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill to give a presentation at Boehringer 
Ingelheim outside the submitted work and support for research from the Eunice 
Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development. Dr 
Zimmerman reported grants from the National Institutes of Health during the 
conduct of the study. Dr Maharaj receives research support from the Thrasher 
Research Fund (www.thrasherresearch.org). Dr Smith receives funding from the 
National Institutes of Health. Dr Benjamin receives support from the National 
Institutes of Health, National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, 
the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences, and Food and Drug 
Administration and personal fees from Astellas Pharma, Cidara Therapeutics, 
Allergan, and Lediant outside the submitted work. Dr Cohen-Wolkowiez receives 
support from the National Institutes of Health, National Institute of Child 
Health and Human Development, the National Center for Advancing Translational 
Sciences, and the US Food and Drug Administration; he also receives research 
support from industry for neonatal and pediatric drug development. No other 
disclosures were reported.