1. PLoS One. 2021 Jun 11;16(6):e0252591. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0252591. 
eCollection 2021.

COVID-19 treatment combinations and associations with mortality in a large 
multi-site healthcare system.

Coppock D(1), Baram M(2), Chang AM(3), Henwood P(3), Kubey A(4)(5), Summer R(2), 
Zurlo J(1), Li M(6), Hess B(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Thomas Jefferson 
University, Sidney Kimmel Medical College, Philadelphia, PA, United States of 
America.
(2)Division of Pulmonary, Department of Medicine, Allergy, and Critical Care 
Medicine, Thomas Jefferson University, Sidney Kimmel Medical College, 
Philadelphia, PA, United States of America.
(3)Department of Emergency Medicine, Thomas Jefferson University, Sidney Kimmel 
Medical College, Philadelphia, PA, United States of America.
(4)Division of Hospital Medicine, Department of Medicine, Thomas Jefferson 
University, Sidney Kimmel Medical College, Philadelphia, PA, United States of 
America.
(5)Division of Hospital Internal Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Mayo 
Clinic, Rochester, MN, United States of America.
(6)Institute of Emerging Health Professions, Center for Digital Health and Data 
Science, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA, United States of 
America.

INTRODUCTION: During the early months of the COVID-19 pandemic, mortality 
associated with the disease declined in the United States. The standard of care 
for pharmacological interventions evolved during this period as new and 
repurposed treatments were used alone and in combination. Though these 
medications have been studied individually, data are limited regarding the 
relative impact of different medication combinations. The objectives of this 
study were to evaluate the association of COVID-19-related mortality and 
observed medication combinations and to determine whether changes in 
medication-related practice patterns and measured patient characteristics, 
alone, explain the decline in mortality seen early in the COVID-19 pandemic.
METHODS: A retrospective cohort study was conducted at a multi-hospital 
healthcare system exploring the association of mortality and combinations of 
remdesivir, corticosteroids, anticoagulants, tocilizumab, and 
hydroxychloroquine. Multivariable logistic regression was used to identify 
predictors of mortality for both the overall population and the population 
stratified by intensive care and non-intensive care unit admissions. A separate 
model was created to control for the change in unmeasured variables over time.
RESULTS: For all patients, four treatment combinations were associated with 
lower mortality: Anticoagulation Only (OR 0.24, p < 0.0001), Anticoagulation and 
Remdesivir (OR 0.25, p = 0.0031), Anticoagulation and Corticosteroids (OR 0.53, 
p = 0.0263), and Anticoagulation, Corticosteroids and Remdesivir (OR 0.42, p = 
0.026). For non-intensive care unit patients, the same combinations were 
significantly associated with lower mortality. For patients admitted to the 
intensive care unit, Anticoagulation Only was the sole treatment category 
associated with decreased mortality. When adjusted for demographics, clinical 
characteristics, and all treatment combinations there was an absolute decrease 
in the mortality rate by 2.5% between early and late periods of the study. 
However, when including an additional control for changes in unmeasured 
variables overtime, the absolute mortality rate decreased by 5.4%.
CONCLUSIONS: This study found that anticoagulation was the most significant 
treatment for the reduction of COVID-related mortality. Anticoagulation Only was 
the sole treatment category associated with a significant decrease in mortality 
for both intensive care and non-intensive care patients. Treatment combinations 
that additionally included corticosteroids and/or remdesivir were also 
associated with decreased mortality, though only in the non-intensive care 
stratum. Further, we found that factors other than measured changes in 
demographics, clinical characteristics or pharmacological interventions 
accounted for an additional decrease in the COVID-19-related mortality rate over 
time.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0252591
PMCID: PMC8195431
PMID: 34115801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.