1. Discoveries (Craiova). 2020 Dec 16;8(4):e121. doi: 10.15190/d.2020.18.

Drug Repurposing for Prevention and Treatment of COVID-19: A Clinical Landscape.

Hossain MS(1), Hami I(1), Sawrav MSS(1), Rabbi MF(1), Saha O(2), Bahadur NM(3), 
Rahaman MM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, Noakhali Science and 
Technology University, Noakhali-3814, Bangladesh.
(2)Department of Microbiology, University of Dhaka, Dhaka-1000, Bangladesh.
(3)Department of Applied Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Noakhali Science 
and Technology University, Noakhali-3814, Bangladesh.

SARS-CoV-2, the novel coronavirus strain responsible for the current pandemic of 
COVID-19, has rendered the entire humanity suffering. Several months have passed 
since the pandemic has struck. However, the world is still looking for an 
effective treatment plan to battle the viral infection. The first vaccine just 
received emergency approval in December 2020 for use in USA and UK. These are 
excellent news, however, the worldwide distribution of such vaccine, the 
possibility of virus mutation and the lack of data regarding the long-term 
effects of such vaccines are a significant concern. In addition, although 
remdesivir was recently approved by the FDA to be used as a clinical drug 
against COVID-19, it hasn't stood out yet as a proven form of therapeutics. Such 
inability to produce a novel therapy has caused enough inconveniences for the 
affected people worldwide. Repurposing the already available drugs to fight 
against the virus seems to be a reasonable option amidst such uncertainty. Given 
the vast collection of potential treatment candidates to be explored against 
COVID-19, there is a decent chance that a success in this regard will serve the 
intermediary purpose of clinically treating the infection until a COVID-19 
vaccine is widely distributed worldwide and will be able to treat COVID-19 
patients that do not adequately respond to vaccines. Such treatments may prove 
very useful in future coronavirus outbreaks too. Proper research into these 
repurposing treatments may yield a certain insight into the field of novel 
treatment production as well. This review study accumulates a relevant set of 
information about drugs and vaccines against COVID-19, in terms of their 
repurposing properties and the specific phases of clinical trials they are 
undergoing across the world.  A potential timeline is also suggested to estimate 
when an effective result can be expected from the ongoing clinical trials for a 
better anticipation of the drug landscape. This study will hopefully help 
accelerate investment of resources into development and discovery of drugs and 
vaccines against the infection.

Copyright © 2020, Applied Systems.

DOI: 10.15190/d.2020.18
PMCID: PMC7758544
PMID: 33403227

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interests: The authors declare that 
the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial 
relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest. 
Author have no conflicts of interest to declare.