1. BMJ. 2020 Jul 30;370:m2924. doi: 10.1136/bmj.m2924.

Remdesivir for severe covid-19: a clinical practice guideline.

Rochwerg B(1)(2), Agarwal A(3)(4), Zeng L(3)(5), Leo YS(6), Appiah JA(7), 
Agoritsas T(3)(8), Bartoszko J(3)(9), Brignardello-Petersen R(3)(9), Ergan 
B(10), Ge L(3)(11)(12)(9), Geduld H(13), Gershengorn HB(14)(15), Manai H(16), 
Huang M(17), Lamontagne F(18), Kanda S(19), Kawano-Dourado L(20)(21), Kurian 
L(22), Kwizera A(23), Murthy S(24)(25), Qadir N(26), Siemieniuk R(3), Silvestre 
MA(27)(28), Vandvik PO(29), Ye Z(3), Zeraatkar D(3)(9), Guyatt G(3)(14)(25).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence and Impact, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada rochwerg@mcmaster.ca.
(2)Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario Canada.
(3)Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence and Impact, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Pharmacy Department-Evidence-Based Pharmacy Center, West China Second 
University Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
(6)National Center for Infectious Diseases, Singapore.
(7)Kwame Nkrumah University of Science & Technology, Kumasi, Ghana.
(8)Division of General Internal Medicine & Division of Clinical Epidemiology, 
University Hospitals of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.
(9)Not panel member, systematic review team and resource for guideline panel.
(10)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care, Dokuz Eylul University, School of 
Medicine, Izmir, Turkey.
(11)Evidence Based Social Science Research Centre, School of Public Health, 
Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, China.
(12)Department of Social Medicine and Health Management, School of Public 
Health, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, China.
(13)Division of Emergency Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, 
Stellenbosch University, Cape Town, South Africa.
(14)Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine, Miller School of 
Medicine, University of Miami, Miami, Florida, USA.
(15)Division of Critical Care Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 
Bronx, New York, USA.
(16)Emergency Medical Services, Faculty of Medicine, Tunis, Tunisia.
(17)Guangdong Kuaiwen Information Technology Co. LTD, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 
China.
(18)Department of Medicine, Centre de recherche du CHU de Sherbrooke, 
Sherbrooke, Quebec, Canada.
(19)McMaster University (alumnus).
(20)Pulmonary Division, Heart Institute (InCor)- HCFMUSP, Medical School, 
University of Sao Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(21)Research Institute, Hospital do Coração (HCor), São Paulo, Brazil.
(22)Division of Hospital Medicine, Donald and Barbara Zucker School of Medicine 
at Hofstra/Northwell, Hempstead, New York, USA.
(23)Department of Anaesthesia and Critical Care, College of Health Sciences, 
Makerere University, Kampala, Uganda.
(24)Faculty of Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.
(25)Not panel member, resource for methodology and content support.
(26)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, David Geffen School of 
Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California, USA.
(27)Kalusugan ng Mag-Ina (Health of Mother and Child), Inc., Quezon City, 
Philippines.
(28)Asia-Pacific Center for Evidence-Based Healthcare, Manila, Philippines.
(29)Department of Health Economics and Health Management, Institute for Health 
and Society, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.

Erratum in
    BMJ. 2020 Nov 23;371:m4542.

CLINICAL QUESTION: What is the role of remdesivir in the treatment of severe 
covid-19? This guideline was triggered by the ACTT-1 trial published in the New 
England Journal of Medicine on 22 May 2020.
CURRENT PRACTICE: Remdesivir has received worldwide attention as a potentially 
effective treatment for severe covid-19. After rapid market approval in the US, 
remdesivir is already being used in clinical practice.
RECOMMENDATIONS: The guideline panel makes a weak recommendation for the use of 
remdesivir in severe covid-19 while recommending continuation of active 
enrolment of patients into ongoing randomised controlled trials examining 
remdesivir.
HOW THIS GUIDELINE WAS CREATED: An international panel of patients, clinicians, 
and methodologists produced these recommendations in adherence with standards 
for trustworthy guidelines using the GRADE approach. The recommendations are 
based on a linked systematic review and network meta-analysis. The panel 
considered an individual patient perspective and allowed contextual factors 
(such as resources) to be taken into account for countries and healthcare 
systems.
THE EVIDENCE: The linked systematic review (published 31 Jul 2020) identified 
two randomised trials with 1300 participants, showing low certainty evidence 
that remdesivir may be effective in reducing time to clinical improvement and 
may decrease mortality in patients with severe covid-19. Remdesivir probably has 
no important effect on need for invasive mechanical ventilation. Remdesivir may 
have little or no effect on hospital length of stay.
UNDERSTANDING THE RECOMMENDATION: Most patients with severe covid-19 would 
likely choose treatment with remdesivir given the potential reduction in time to 
clinical improvement. However, given the low certainty evidence for critical 
outcomes and the fact that different perspectives, values, and preferences may 
alter decisions regarding remdesivir, the panel issued a weak recommendation 
with strong support for continued recruitment in randomised trials.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.m2924
PMID: 32732352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the BMJ Rapid Recommendations interests disclosure form, and a detailed 
description of all disclosures is reported in appendix 3 on bmj.com. As with all 
BMJ Rapid Recommendations, the executive team and The BMJ judged that no panel 
member had any financial conflict of interest. Professional and academic 
interests are minimised as much as possible, while maintaining necessary 
expertise on the panel to make fully informed decisions.