1. J Pharm Pharm Sci. 2021;24:277-291. doi: 10.18433/jpps32011.

Simulation of Remdesivir Pharmacokinetics and Its Drug Interactions.

Deb S(1), Reeves AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, Larkin 
University, Miami, FL, USA.

PURPOSE: Remdesivir, a drug originally developed against Ebola virus, is 
currently recommended for patients hospitalized with coronavirus disease of 2019 
(COVID-19). In spite of United States Food and Drug Administration's recent 
assent of remdesivir as the only approved agent for COVID-19, there is limited 
information available about the physicochemical, metabolism, transport, 
pharmacokinetic (PK), and drug-drug interaction (DDI) properties of this drug. 
The objective of this in silico simulation work was to simulate the 
biopharmaceutical and DDI behavior of remdesivir and characterize remdesivir PK 
properties in special populations which are highly affected by COVID-19.
METHODS: The Spatial Data File format structures of remdesivir prodrug (GS-5734) 
and nucleoside core (GS-441524) were obtained from the PubChem database to 
upload into the GastroPlus software 9.8 version (Simulations Plus Inc., USA). 
The Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion and Toxicity (ADMET) 
Predictor and PKPlus modules of GastroPlus were used to simulate physicochemical 
and PK properties, respectively, in healthy and predisposed patients. 
Physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modeling of GastroPlus was used to 
simulate different patient populations based on age, weight, liver function, and 
renal function status. Subsequently, these data were used in the Drug-Drug 
Interaction module to simulate drug interaction potential of remdesivir with 
other COVID-19 drug regimens and with agents used for comorbidities.
RESULTS: Remdesivir nucleoside core (GS-441524) is more hydrophilic than the 
inactive prodrug (GS-5734) with nucleoside core demonstrating better water 
solubility. GS-5734, but not GS-441524, is predicted to be metabolized by 
CYP3A4. Remdesivir is bioavailable and its clearance is achieved through hepatic 
and renal routes. Differential effects of renal function, liver function, 
weight, or age were observed on the PK profile of remdesivir. DDI simulation 
study of remdesivir with perpetrator drugs for comorbidities indicate that 
carbamazepine, phenytoin, amiodarone, voriconazole, diltiazem, and verapamil 
have the potential for strong interactions with victim remdesivir, whereas 
agents used for COVID-19 treatment such as chloroquine and ritonavir can cause 
weak and strong interactions, respectively, with remdesivir.
CONCLUSIONS: GS-5734 (inactive prodrug) appears to be a superior remdesivir 
derivative due to its hepatic stability, optimum hydrophilic/lipophilic balance, 
and disposition properties. Remdesivir disposition can potentially be affected 
by different physiological and pathological conditions, and by drug interactions 
from COVID-19 drug regimens and agents used for comorbidities.

DOI: 10.18433/jpps32011
PMID: 34107241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]