1. Cancer Discov. 2020 Oct;10(10):1514-1527. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-20-0941. 
Epub 2020 Jul 22.

Utilization of COVID-19 Treatments and Clinical Outcomes among Patients with 
Cancer: A COVID-19 and Cancer Consortium (CCC19) Cohort Study.

Rivera DR(#)(1), Peters S(#)(2), Panagiotou OA(3), Shah DP(4), Kuderer NM(5), 
Hsu CY(6), Rubinstein SM(7), Lee BJ(7), Choueiri TK(8), de Lima Lopes G Jr(9), 
Grivas P(10)(11), Painter CA(12), Rini BI(7), Thompson MA(13), Arcobello J(14), 
Bakouny Z(8), Doroshow DB(15)(16), Egan PC(17), Farmakiotis D(18), Fecher 
LA(19), Friese CR(20), Galsky MD(15)(16), Goel S(21), Gupta S(22), Halfdanarson 
TR(23), Halmos B(21), Hawley JE(24), Khaki AR(10), Lemmon CA(22), Mishra S(25), 
Olszewski AJ(17), Pennell NA(22), Puc MM(26), Revankar SG(14), Schapira L(27), 
Schmidt A(8), Schwartz GK(24), Shah SA(27), Wu JT(27), Xie Z(23), Yeh AC(10), 
Zhu H(15), Shyr Y(#)(6), Lyman GH(#)(11), Warner JL(#); COVID-19 and Cancer 
Consortium.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Control and Population Sciences, NCI, Rockville, Maryland.
(2)Department of Oncology, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Health Services, Policy and Practice, Brown University, 
Providence, Rhode Island.
(4)Department of Population Health Sciences, Mays Cancer Center, UT Health San 
Antonio MD Anderson, San Antonio, Texas.
(5)Advanced Cancer Research Group, LLC, Kirkland, Washington.
(6)Department of Biostatistics, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
Tennessee.
(7)Deparment of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Oncology, Vanderbilt 
University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee.
(8)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(9)Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Miami, Miami, Florida.
(10)Department of Medicine, Division of Oncology, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington.
(11)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington.
(12)Count Me In, Cambridge, Massachusetts.
(13)Advocate Aurora Health, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
(14)Karmanos Cancer Institute, Detroit, Michigan.
(15)Department of Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
New York.
(16)Tisch Cancer Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
New York.
(17)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology, The Warren Alpert 
Medical School of Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island.
(18)Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, The Warren Alpert 
Medical School of Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island.
(19)Department of Internal Medicine, Rogel Cancer Center, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
(20)School of Nursing, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
(21)Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, New 
York.
(22)Department of Hematology and Medical Oncology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, 
Ohio.
(23)Department of Medical Oncology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.
(24)Department of Medicine, Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbia 
University Irving Medical Center, New York, New York.
(25)Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center, Nashville, Tennessee.
(26)Department of Surgery, Section of Thoracic Surgery, Virtua Health, Marlton, 
New Jersey.
(27)Department of Medicine, Division of Oncology, Stanford University, Palo 
Alto, California.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Cancer Discov. 10(10):1426.

Among 2,186 U.S. adults with invasive cancer and laboratory-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 
infection, we examined the association of COVID-19 treatments with 30-day 
all-cause mortality and factors associated with treatment. Logistic regression 
with multiple adjustments (e.g., comorbidities, cancer status, baseline COVID-19 
severity) was performed. Hydroxychloroquine with any other drug was associated 
with increased mortality versus treatment with any COVID-19 treatment other than 
hydroxychloroquine or untreated controls; this association was not present with 
hydroxychloroquine alone. Remdesivir had numerically reduced mortality versus 
untreated controls that did not reach statistical significance. Baseline 
COVID-19 severity was strongly associated with receipt of any treatment. Black 
patients were approximately half as likely to receive remdesivir as white 
patients. Although observational studies can be limited by potential unmeasured 
confounding, our findings add to the emerging understanding of patterns of care 
for patients with cancer and COVID-19 and support evaluation of emerging 
treatments through inclusive prospective controlled trials. SIGNIFICANCE: 
Evaluating the potential role of COVID-19 treatments in patients with cancer in 
a large observational study, there was no statistically significant 30-day 
all-cause mortality benefit with hydroxychloroquine or high-dose corticosteroids 
alone or in combination; remdesivir showed potential benefit. Treatment receipt 
reflects clinical decision-making and suggests disparities in medication 
access.This article is highlighted in the In This Issue feature, p. 1426.

©2020 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-20-0941
PMCID: PMC7541683
PMID: 32699031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: S.L. Peters reports personal fees and other from 
Roche/Genentech (advisor/consultant role, and satellite symposium, all fees to 
institution), personal fees and other from BMS (advisor/consultant role, and 
satellite symposium, all fees to institution), MSD (advisor/consultant role, and 
satellite symposium, all fees to institution), Merck Serono (advisor/consultant 
role, all fees to institution), Pfizer (advisor/consultant role, and satellite 
symposium, all fees to institution), Novartis (advisor/consultant role, and 
satellite symposium, all fees to institution), AstraZeneca (advisor/consultant 
role, and satellite symposium, all fees to institution), Regeneron 
(advisor/consultant role, all fees to institution), Boehringer Ingelheim 
(advisor/consultant role, and satellite symposium, all fees to institution), 
Amgen (advisor/consultant role, all fees to institution), Bioinvent 
(advisor/consultant role, all fees to institution), Daiichi Sankyo 
(advisor/consultant role, all fees to institution), Biocartis 
(advisor/consultant role, all fees to institution), AbbVie (advisor/consultant 
role, all fees to institution), Debiopharm (advisor/consultant role, all fees to 
institution), Eli Lilly (advisor/consultant role, and satellite symposium, all 
fees to institution), Foundation Medicine (advisor/consultant role, and 
satellite symposium, all fees to institution), Illumina (advisor/consultant 
role, and satellite symposium, all fees to institution), Janssen 
(advisor/consultant role, all fees to institution), Pharmamar 
(advisor/consultant role, all fees to institution), Sanofi (advisor/consultant 
role, and satellite symposium, all fees to institution), Seattle Genetics 
(advisor/consultant role, all fees to institution), Takeda (advisor/consultant 
role, and satellite symposium, all fees to institution), Vaccibody 
(advisor/consultant role, all fees to institution), and Mirati 
(advisor/consultant role, all fees to institution) outside the submitted work. 
O.A. Panagiotou reports grants from NCI during the conduct of the study. D.P. 
Shah reports grants from American Cancer Society and Hope Research Foundation 
[this work was supported in part by the American Cancer Society and the Hope 
Foundation for Cancer Research (Mentored Research Scholar Grants in Applied and 
Clinical Research, MRSG-16-152-01-CCE; to D.P. Shah)] during the conduct of the 
study. N.M. Kuderer reports personal fees from Celldex (consulting fees), BMS 
(consulting fees), Janssen (consulting fees), Invitae (consulting fees), Total 
Health (consulting fees), Beyond Springs (consulting fees), Bayer (consulting 
fees), and Spectrum Pharmaceuticals (consulting fees) outside the submitted 
work. B.J. Lee reports grants from National Science Foundation (NSF; his 
contributions to this manuscript are part of his work as an NSF Research 
Experience for Undergraduates (REU) student) during the conduct of the study. 
T.K. Choueiri reports grants, personal fees, nonfinancial support, and other 
from AstraZeneca (clinical trials, advisory board, consultancy and related 
travel/lodging and manuscript support), Pfizer (clinical trials, advisory board, 
consultancy and related travel/lodging and manuscript support), Exelixis 
(clinical trials, advisory board, consultancy and related travel/lodging and 
manuscript support), BMS (clinical trials, advisory board, consultancy and 
related travel/lodging and manuscript support), Merck (clinical trials, advisory 
board, consultancy and related travel/lodging and manuscript support), Novartis 
(clinical trials, advisory board, consultancy and related travel/lodging and 
manuscript support), GSK (clinical trials, advisory board, consultancy and 
related travel/lodging and manuscript support), and Roche (clinical trials, 
advisory board, consultancy and related travel/lodging and manuscript support) 
during the conduct of the study, Pfizer (related to kidney cancer: clinical 
trials, advisory board, consultancy, manuscript support), Exelixis (related to 
kidney cancer: clinical trials, advisory board, consultancy, manuscript 
support), BMS (related to kidney cancer: clinical trials, advisory board, 
consultancy, manuscript support), Merck (related to kidney cancer: clinical 
trials, advisory board, consultancy, manuscript support), Roche/Genentech 
(related to kidney cancer: clinical trials, advisory board, consultancy, 
manuscript support), and Novartis (related to kidney cancer: clinical trials, 
advisory board, consultancy, manuscript support) outside the submitted work; and 
no leadership or employment in for-profit companies. Other present or past 
leadership roles: Director of GU Oncology Division at Dana-Farber and past 
President of medical Staff at Dana-Farber), member of NCCN Kidney panel and the 
GU Steering Committee, past chairman of the Kidney Cancer Association Medical 
and Scientific Steering Committee, KidneyCan Advisory board, Kidney cancer 
Research Summit co-chair (2019-present). P. Grivas reports grants and personal 
fees from Pfizer, Genentech, Bayer, Merck, and Mirati Therapeutics, 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, and QED Therapeutics; personal fees from EMD Serono, 
Oncogenex, Seattle Genetics, Foundation Medicine, Driver, Heron Therapeutics, 
Janssen, GlaxoSmithKline, Genzyme, Roche, and Exelixis; grants, personal fees, 
and nonfinancial support from AstraZeneca, Clovis Oncology; and grants from 
Bavarian Nordic, Immunomedics, and Debiopharm, and Kure It Cancer Research 
outside the submitted work. B.I. Rini reports grants, personal fees, and 
nonfinancial support from Merck and BMS; grants and personal fees from Pfizer, 
Arravive, and AVEO; grants from Genentech; personal fees from Surface Oncology, 
3D Medicines, Arrowhead outside the submitted work. M.A. Thompson reports 
personal fees from Adaptive (advisory board, registry), UpToDate (royalties), 
and AIM Specialty Health (advisory board) outside the submitted work; other from 
CRAB CTC (institutional), Amgen (institutional), Hoosier Research Network 
(institutional), Janssen (institutional), Lilly (institutional), LynxBio 
(institutional), Strata Oncology (institutional), Takeda (institutional), TG 
Therapeutics (institutional); personal fees and other from BMS (Celgene; 
advisory board, registry; institutional), Takeda (Celgene; advisory board, 
registry; institutional), GSK (institutional; advisory board December 12, 2017). 
Z. Bakouny reports nonfinancial support from Bristol-Myers Squibb and grants 
from Genentech outside the submitted work. D.B. Doroshow reports grants from NCI 
[the Tisch Cancer Institute Cancer Center Support Grant (1P30CA196521)] during 
the conduct of the study; other from Janssen Oncology (institutional funding), 
Dendreon (institutional funding), Novartis (institutional funding), 
Bristol-Myers Squibb (institutional funding), Merck (institutional funding), 
AstraZeneca (institutional funding), and Genentech/Roche (institutional funding) 
outside the submitted work. P.C. Egan reports research support to her 
institution from CTI Biopharma Corp. M.D. Galsky reports personal fees from 
Janssen, GlaxoSmithKline, Lilly, Astellas, Pfizer, EMD Serono, Seattle Genetics, 
Incyte, Aileron, Dracen, Inovio, NuMab, and Dragonfly outside the submitted 
work; grants and personal fees from Genentech, Dendreon, Merck, AstraZeneca, 
Bristol-Myers Squibb; and grants from Novartis. T.F. Halfdanarson reports 
personal fees from Curium (consulting/advisory board), TERUMO 
(consulting/advisory board), ScioScientific (consulting/advisory board); 
nonfinancial support from Ipsen (consulting; fees paid to institution), Advanced 
Accelerator Applications (consulting; fees paid to institution); grants from 
Thermo Fisher Scientific (research funding to institution), Basilea (research 
funding to institution), and Agios (research funding to institution) outside the 
submitted work. B. Halmos reports grants and personal fees from Merck, BMS, 
Novartis, Pfizer, Eli Lilly, Boehringer-Ingelheim, AstraZeneca, Guardant Health, 
Takeda, and Amgen outside the submitted work; and personal fees from Genentech 
and TPT; grants from AbbVie, Advaxis, and GSK. A.R. Khaki reports grants from 
NIH (T32CA009515) outside the submitted work. S. Mishra reports grants from NIH 
(P30 CA068485) during the conduct of the study. A.J. Olszewski reports other 
from Genentech (research funds for the institution), TG Therapeutics (research 
funds for the institution); other from Spectrum Pharmaceuticals (research funds 
for the institution); and nonfinancial support from Adaptive Biotechnologies 
(research support) outside the submitted work. N.A. Pennell reports personal 
fees from Merck (advisory board), AstraZeneca (advisory board), Genentech 
(advisory board), Amgen (advisory board), BMS (advisory board), Eli Lilly 
(advisory board), G1 Therapeutics (advisory board), and Regeneron (advisory 
board) outside the submitted work. A. Schmidt reports nonfinancial support from 
Pfizer and Astellas outside the submitted work. G.K. Schwartz reports personal 
fees from Apexigen (advisory board), Array (advisory board), Epizyme (advisory 
board), GenCirq (advisory board), Daiichi Sankyo (advisory board), Fortress 
(consultant), Iovance Biotherapeutics (consultant), Bayer Pharmaceuticals 
(sarcoma advisory board), Pfizer Oncology (consultant), Puretech (consultant), 
PTC Therapeutics (consultant), Ellipsis Pharma (scientific advisory group), and 
Conarlo (SAB member) outside the submitted work; other from Bionaut (advisory 
board); personal fees from Oncgoenuity (SAB member); and grants from Astex. Y. 
Shyr reports grants from NCI during the conduct of the study. G.H. Lyman reports 
grants and nonfinancial support from Amgen; personal fees from G1 Therapeutics, 
Invitae, Sandoz, Samsung Bioepi, Beyond Spring, Spectrum, Merck, Mylan, and 
Partner Therapeutics. J.L. Warner reports grants from NCI (P30 CA068485; U01 
CA231840) during the conduct of the study; personal fees from Westat, other from 
HemOnc.org (stock ownership; no monetary value); and personal fees from IBM 
Watson Health outside the submitted work. No potential conflicts of interest 
were disclosed by the other authors.